---
title: Installation
description: Learn how to install and configure the plugin in your Kirby project.
---

## Quick Start

### Step 1: Install the Plugin

Although it is a commercial plugin, you can download and test the plugin in your local environment before purchasing it.

#### Composer

The recommended way to install the plugin is via Composer. To install the plugin, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
composer require johannschopplich/kirby-seo-audit
```

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
Prior to v1.7, the plugin was published on a private Composer repository. It is now available on Packagist and can be installed without authentication. Your license key remains the same and is still required in production environments. To migrate your license key to the new location, follow these steps:

- Open a Panel page that contains the SEO Audit section.
- Your license key is **automatically migrated** from the `auth.json` file in your root directory to the new location in the `/site/config/.kirby-tools-licenses` file.
- Update your `.gitignore` file to exclude the new license file.

You can remove the `repo.kirby.tools` repository configuration from your `composer.json` file.

::

#### Download

Head over to the [releases page](https://github.com/kirby-tools/kirby-seo-audit/releases) and download the latest version of the plugin as a ZIP file. Extract the contents of this ZIP file to your `site/plugins` folder. It should look like this:

```
site/plugins/
├─ kirby-seo-audit/
│  └─ … All plugin files
```

### Step 2: Blueprint Setup

To display the SEO audit section in the Kirby Panel, add a section of type `seo-audit` to any page blueprint:

```yaml [pages/default.yml]
sections:
  seoAudit:
    type: seo-audit
```

You don't have to configure anything else! Open your Kirby Panel and you should see the new SEO audit section:

::preview{src="/img/seo-audit-section.png"}
::

Click the **Analyze** button to perform SEO checks on the current page. The report will evaluate the SEO quality of the page and provide actionable insights to improve it.

### Step 3: Buy a License

You can test the plugin locally. However, you need to purchase a license to use the plugin in production environments.

Visit the [product page on Lemon Squeezy](https://byjohann.lemonsqueezy.com/buy/639a814b-ca35-42db-9a40-026fc9274d60) and purchase a license. Then, open any Panel page that contains the SEO Audit section. Click the **Activate** link to open the activation form:

:prose-video{src="/vid/kirby-seo-audit-activation.mp4" poster="/vid/kirby-seo-audit-activation-poster.jpg" width="908" height="540"}

Enter the email you used for the purchase and the order number and hit the submit button. Done! Thanks for supporting our work. Once you activate your license, the license activation buttons will disappear.

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
Your license key will be automatically stored in the `/site/config/.kirby-tools-licenses` file. Make sure to add this file to your `.gitignore` file to keep your license key private.
::
