---
title: Configuration
description: Learn which blueprint properties you can use to configure the SEO Insights section.
---

Kirby SEO Audit doesn't require any global configuration. All aspects of the plugin can be configured on a per-section basis. For specific use cases, such as running Kirby inside Docker containers, you can adjust the [proxy configuration](#proxy) globally.

## Section Properties

### `label` :u-badge{label="String" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

The `label` property defines the label of the section.

The default value is `SEO Audit` and `SEO-Audit` if the Panel language for the current user is set to German.

If you want to change the label, you can do so by setting the `label` property:

```yaml [sections/seo-insights.yml]
type: seo-insights
label: SEO Report
```

### `keyphraseField` :u-badge{label="String" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

If you want to include keyword/keyphrase assessments in your SEO analysis, you need to define a field in your blueprint that contains the keyphrase for the given page. The editor can then **enter the keyword or keyphrase for which he wants the page to rank in Google.**

Set the `keyphraseField` property to select which field of the current page model contains the keyphrase.

```yaml [pages/default.yml]
sections:
  content:
    type: fields
    fields:
      # Define the keyphrase field
      metaKeywords:
        label: Meta Keywords
        type: text
  seo:
    seoInsights:
      type: seo-insights
      # Reference the keyphrase field
      keyphraseField: metaKeywords
```

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
If no `keyphraseField` is defined, all keyphrase assessments will be skipped, unless you explicitly enable them in the `assessments` property.
::

### `assessments` :u-badge{label="Array" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

Kirby SEO Audit comes with a set of assessments that are used to analyze the content of a page. You can enable or disable individual assessments by setting the `assessments` property. By default, all assessments are enabled.

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
For a list of available assessments, see the [Assessments Guide](/docs/guide/assessments) page.
::

An example configuration that only includes a subset of assessments:

```yaml [sections/seo-insights.yml]
type: seo-insights
assessments:
  # Select the assessments you want to include
  - MetaDescriptionKeyword
  - MetaDescriptionLength
  - PageTitleWidth
  - TextImages
  - TextLength
```

### `links` :u-badge{label="Boolean" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

The analysis paper contains recommendation links to articles on [yoast.com](https://yoast.com) that explain the individual assessments in more detail. While these links can be helpful, you may want to disable them for privacy reasons or because you don't want to distract the editor.

Set the `links` property to `false` to disable any links in the SEO report:

```yaml [sections/seo-insights.yml]
type: seo-insights
links: false
```

### `persisted` :u-badge{label="Boolean" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

Decide if the report should be saved to local storage or not. By default, the generated SEO audit will be saved to (and read from) the local storage of the browser. This allows the editor to close the panel and return to the SEO audit later without having to re-run the analysis.

To disable persisting the analysis, set the `persisted` property to `false`:

```yaml [sections/seo-insights.yml]
type: seo-insights
persisted: false
```

## Global Configuration

::callout{icon="i-ri-information-line"}
In most cases, i.e. for traditional Kirby sites, you don't need to configure anything globally.
::

### `proxy` :u-badge{label="Array" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

The proxy API path is used to fetch the HTML content of the page if the preview URL is not on the same origin as the Panel. This is necessary to avoid CORS issues.

#### `urlResolver` :u-badge{label="Callable" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

The `urlResolver` property accepts a callable that is used to resolve the URL of the proxy API. This is useful if you run Kirby inside Docker containers and need to resolve the URL to the host machine:

```php [config.php]
'johannschopplich.seo-audit' => [
    'proxy' => [
        'urlResolver' => function (string $url) {
            $uri = new \Kirby\Http\Uri($url);

            if (str_starts_with($uri->base(), 'http://127.0.0.1:3000')) {
                $uri->setHost('host.docker.internal');
            }

            return $uri->toString();
        }
    ]
]
```

#### `params` :u-badge{label="Array" class="align-middle ml-2 !rounded-full" variant="subtle"}

Any parameter supported by Kirby's [`Remote::request()`](https://getkirby.com/docs/reference/objects/http/remote/request) method can be passed to the proxy API. This is useful if you need to authenticate against the preview URL:

```php [config.php]
'johannschopplich.seo-audit' => [
    'proxy' => [
        'params' => [
            'basicAuth' => 'user:password'
        ]
    ]
]
```
